[Loial] The Ways,
ancient pathways.
One wrong step,
and you plummet.
[Valda] Those two...
bring them to me.
- Sir, please.
- Call me Child Valda.
- No!
- [yelling]
[yelling]
[grunting]
[Perrin] Who are they?
What do they want?
- [shouting]
- [yelling]
[Alwhin] Those who will
not swear the oaths
will have the oaths
sworn for them.
[Nynaeve] Perrin and Loial
have been captured.
I'm going to Falme to free them.
- Liandrin Sedai.
- I am sorry for this.
[yells, grunts]
- [Perrin] What are we?
- [Elyas] Wolfbrother,
they call us.
Let's go.
He likes you.
[Perrin] Hopper.
That's his name.
I need an oath of allegiance.
You will simply
have to trust me.
[Rand] They say
when men go mad, they kill
- people they love first.
- Are you saying you love me?
You killed her.
[Moiraine] I haven't
'cause that is Lanfear,
most dangerous of the Forsaken.
Hurry!
♪ ♪
[birds squawking]
High Lord Turak, royal commander
of the Hailene...
Lady Suroth will speak for
herself before the High Lord.
As the High Lord commands.
[Turak's Voice] You disobeyed
an order.
You invaded a village
without permission.
[Suroth] But I've brought back
a Ogier slave,
a Shienaran, Lord.
By what right do you claim
to make decisions
over your Lord Commander?
[sighs]
Perhaps my lord made a mistake.
[crowd gasping]
I do not make mistakes.
I am guided by the Light.
We have a mission:
uniting all the people
of the world
under our empress
to fight the Shadow.
A mission you have
carelessly jeopardized
by seizing a village too far
beyond our current reach.
A village we cannot hold.
I beg my lord's forgiveness.
Lady Suroth, you are barred
from this court's council
until you are once again
presentable. Kneel.
[scoffs softly]
Kneel.
♪ ♪
[gulps]
[gasping]
- [gasps]
- Take her to her chambers.
[grunts]
[Ishamael] My lord,
one more thing.
A gift from the village
we captured.
I know you are a collector
of ancient things.
[crowd murmuring]
High Lord Turak,
I give you...
The Horn of Valere.
♪ ♪
With this...
the whole world will be ours.
♪ ♪
[panting]
[groans softly]
[Rand] Why are we running?
You killed her.
That wound will
barely slow her down.
Hurry.
[groans softly]
[gasps]
[guttural groaning]
Bitch.
- [loud, guttural gasp]
- [exhales]
[exhales]
[sighs]
[rolling thunder]
[Rand] I don't understand.
She's a Forsaken.
How did she...?
If we survive tonight,
I'll explain everything.
[rolling thunder]
There.
[panting]
[horses neighing]
- [horse neighs]
- Oy!
Oy! Payment first.
I'm commandeering
your fastest horses on behalf
of the Amyrlin Seat
and the White Tower.
There's no way I'll let you
just take my horses.
You're coming with us,
and if they are not saddled
in two minutes, I swear
you will regret this night
for however much longer
your life lasts.
[stablemaster gasps]
[horse neighs]
The White Tower?
Are we going back to...
- Hey, what are you doing?
- There are four horses.
I cannot give her a way
to follow us.
[horse squeals, chuffs]
- [grunts]
- [horse squeals]
[hoofbeats]
[calls to horse]
[Rand calls to horse]
[horse neighs]
Clever.
[horse neighing]
[horse sputtering]
[man] Good evening, my lady.
Do you need help?
Yes, actually.
So polite of you to ask.
Where does this road lead?
Why, Tar Valon.
Of course it does.
What happened to your h...
[sighs] A horse.
Is there anything slower
than a horse?
[neighs loudly]
- [birds calling]
- [animals hooting]
My eyes. Will they change
like yours permanently?
In time.
Soon, if you're lucky.
Man-eyes can't pick out deer
in tall grass,
can't see cliffs ahead
at night. Useless.
Like everything else
we're born with.
[Perrin] You must miss
civilization sometimes.
- I miss beer.
- [scoffs]
Not much fun drinking alone.
I'm never alone.
Now, neither are you.
[insects chirring]
[chuffs]
What?
That's Atuan's Mill.
That's where we were
when those soldiers came.
We're not following
the caravan.
We're going the opposite way.
You lied to me.
Better than being dead...
or a slave.
- Oh, like my friends?
- They're not your pack.
Neither are the humans
from the Two Rivers.
Neither was your wife.
No, no, no, you don't know
anything about my pack!
[growling]
[barking]
[snarling]
[growling]
I'm going to find my friends.
I don't care who has them.
You can't run
from what you are, boy.
[whining]
[horse neighs loudly]
[rolling thunder]
[hoofbeats thundering]
[neighs]
[neighing]
It'll be a day or two
before she discovers the truth.
If we're lucky.
[Rand sighs]
I knew. Somehow,
I knew you'd be back.
Tell me the truth.
All of it.
You did not defeat the Dark One
at the Eye of the World.
You set his strongest
lieutenant free...
Ishamael, the leader
of the Forsaken.
But the Forsaken...
they were trapped.
By you... in your last life,
and now Ishamael is loose,
and he has released Lanfear.
And the rest of them?
If he releases them all,
well, then, we have no hope
of winning the Last Battle.
[Rand sighs softly]
[animal hooting]
[insects chirring]
[panting]
[barks]
[whines]
[whining, barking]
What is it?
[barks]
[chuffing]
[insects trilling]
Hmm. Huh.
[sniffs softly]
- [growls softly]
- I told you.
We're not going back
to that town.
We need to work out
where they took Loial
and Ingtar and...
[whining]
[animal howling]
Uno...
♪ ♪
They didn't even bury him.
- But you wait for me here.
- [chuffs softly]
[whines softly]
[distant, indistinct shouting]
[indistinct shouting]
[exhales]
[panting]
[indistinct shouting]
[gasps]
[metallic squeaking]
[groans softly]
[panting]
[woman] That'll be loud,
wetlander.
Don't want them to hear you.
[panting softly]
[man] I wouldn't get too close.
Last man who touched her cage
had his arm broken
and practically ripped off.
You can't trust an Aiel.
Some water for you.
What did she do?
Did the Seanchan put her
in here?
You've met the strangers.
There's a curfew.
You'll have to stay the night.
Come. Show you the...
closest excuse for an inn
this town has to offer.
[indistinct, distant shouting]
Atuan's Mill doesn't see
too many visitors.
[Perrin] Just passing through.
Looks like Two Rivers work.
But you're on the wrong side
of the Mountains of Mist.
What was that you said earlier
about strangers?
[Dain] Barkeep,
another round.
[distant, overlapping chatter]
What did she did do?
The Aiel woman?
She wandered into the wrong town
at the wrong time.
Don't try to help her,
Two Rivers.
She's past that now.
You understand me?
- [panting]
- [barkeep] Come here, Lady.
Lady, come here!
Sorry, sir. She's...
She's never like this.
[distinct,
indistinct shouting]
Actually, I'll see that room
now, please.
[Dain] Barkeep, make up a room
for our new friend.
[barkeep] Yes, of course,
Child Bornhald.
Thank you.
- [barkeep] Lady, come.
- [dog barking]
I hope you find your way
back home, Two Rivers.
[whining]
What happened to the previous
owner, Missus Amudee?
She followed the caravan
that took her granddaughter.
And the Whitecloaks?
They pushed out the Seanchan
a couple days back.
But truly,
we were better off before.
Oh, once you swear their oaths,
they leave you alone,
more or less.
- The Questioners, though...
- [Lady whines]
[Valda] She was to be
given nothing, Child Bornhald.
Shh.
[Dain] It took 11 of your
Questioners to take her spears
and another five to cage her.
She'll take double that number
before she submits
to any of your... questions.
You think it's a coincidence
that we find Aiel
this far west of the Spine
at the same time these strangers
invade from the sea?
The more questions I ask,
the more answers I get.
The strangers have established
a base in Falme.
It's there that we will
- push them back into the sea.
- [floorboard creaks]
- [Valda] Who's there?
- [Lady barking]
Don't worry, Valda.
No wolves here.
Heavy is the suckling child.
The day will come when your
father's name will not save you,
Dain Bornhald.
♪ ♪
[exhales]
- [wind howling]
- [thunder rolling]
[neighing]
[horse sputtering]
[neighs]
[horse chuffing]
[Lanfear] Where are they?
Who?
The woman and man
traveling with you.
Oh. They told me
to race the horses to the Tower
as fast as I could, even though
that's not good for them.
That amount of riding
without a break,
- even though I've been train...
- Stop talking.
Whose idea was it?
This little trick?
The Aes Sedai's.
The young man, he seemed
to be half in a daze,
- only following...
- Of course he was.
He's still so young.
I must remember that.
She's more ruthless than
I imagined, using you as bait.
Well, eventually, they'll have
to sleep, won't they?
Then I'll have them.
Very good, my lady.
I'll not tell nobody
- you were looking for them.
- Oh, I know you won't.
[groaning]
[crying]
- [muffled shouting]
- [horse neighing]
[muffled shouting continues]
[indistinct, overlapping
chatter and shouting]
[horse neighing]
[indistinct chatter continues]
- [door opens]
- [gasps]
You're back, Verin.
For how long? Why?
Can't a retiree pop in
- without an ulterior motive?
- Oh.
Absolutely not.
- [laughing]
- Nyomi.
- Mm.
- Ah.
I come seeking knowledge
from our Great Library
and the company of my Sisters
- of the Brown Ajah.
- [Nyomi] My goodness,
it is wonderful to see you.
- Shall I open this?
- Oh, yeah. It's from Adeleas,
with love.
[wind whistling]
Hmm. Oh.
Hand it over.
Mm.
- [Verin and Nyomi laugh]
- Oh.
How goes the History
of the World after the Breaking?
Are you making progress?
Oh, and Tifan's Well!
We've been meaning
to visit, but there's just
so much to be read.
Tell us where you've been,
where you're going, everything.
Yes, yes, all in good time,
Yasicca.
Adeleas says I am not
to return without gossip
- in exchange
for her heady brew.
- Hmm.
Oh. So...
I hear we have some new
and very powerful novices?
[thunder rolling]
[thunder booming]
[grunts softly]
You're shielded and bound.
I'd warn you not
to try anything, but...
[grunts, pants]
[thunder rumbling]
How did you attack us
with the One Power?
You broke the Three Oaths.
I've broken many more than that.
[loud thunderclaps]
Do you know why the Aes Sedai
swear the Three Oaths
in the first place?
A thousand years ago,
a great king threatened
to burn the Tower
unless we bound ourselves
with the Oaths.
[laughs softly]
Our power didn't frighten him
as much as our humanity.
That's why the White Tower
has so many rules
and rituals and formalities.
If we look inhuman
and predictable,
like the tides,
men won't measure themselves
against us,
have to tear us down.
You weren't recruiting me
for the Red Ajah, were you?
You were recruiting me for him.
It would make
what's to come easier for you.
I'll die before I join the Dark.
No matter what you do or say,
or where you take us.
Every woman has her price.
A burden
she can no longer carry, or a...
a hope for a future...
...impossible in this world.
[thunder rumbling]
Your son is dying.
You've betrayed your Sisters,
and you're sitting
in the dark trying
to justify yourself
to a woman you kidnapped.
Was your price worth all this?
- [lightning crackles]
- [thunder rolls]
Alwhin, leave us, please.
[distant shouting]
[door creaks]
[door closes]
Finished pouting?
You're the one that wanted to go
to that filthy fishing village.
For what?
An Ogier, or your pet wolf?
My desires are my own.
But I'm paying the price.
We should just kill Turak
and be done with it!
And plunge the empire
into civil war?
It seems your stupidity
is second only
to your inability
to control your temper.
It's my army
you need for your war.
My ships, my leashes.
You may be Chosen,
but you are not of the Blood.
You are here at my invitation.
And I know why you swore
your oaths to the Dark.
I forget myself, my lord.
Tarmon Gai'don,
the Last Battle,
will be won right here,
in Falme, written in the skies
above this city.
The Dragon will join us.
I have a gift for you, too.
They should be here shortly.
[Suroth grunts]
[floorboards creaking]
[door creaks]
[indistinct chatter
and shouting]
[panting]
[metallic creaking]
[Perrin] Hold on.
[Perrin grunts]
- [creaking]
- [Perrin groans]
[distant shouting]
[Perrin groans]
Are you all right?
Think you can walk?
[indistinct shouting]
Look, we should get going.
But we won't get very far
if I have to carry you.
One wetlander puts me in a cage.
Another takes me out.
Why do you help me?
People shouldn't be in cages.
♪ ♪
My name is Aviendha.
Of the Nine Valleys sept
of the Taardad Aiel.
Far Dareis Mai.
My water is yours.
Um, I'm Perrin Aybara.
[chuckles softly]
[distant shouting]
Look, we need to go now.
[swords ring from sheaths]
I told you not to help her.
We don't want a fight.
We just want to go our own way.
[Dain] I'm sorry.
Attack all at once
on my signal.
One at a time,
and she'll have you.
[both panting]
- Mm, no.
- [laughs]
♪ ♪
Perrin Aybara...
do you like to dance?
- [shouting]
- [grunting]
♪ ♪
[shouting]
[man screaming]
[grunts]
♪ ♪
- [bone snaps]
- [man yells]
[grunting]
Wait!
[panting]
He gave you water.
He helped us, remember?
What are you?
Let him go.
Now.
The rest will come down on us.
We have to hurry.
[bell tolling]
[horse neighs]
She'll know we're here.
We need food, clothing
and fast horses.
Then we'll ride for a few days,
put some distance between us.
[Rand] Sleep,
we'll need sleep eventually.
No. That is the most dangerous
thing we could possibly do.
What are you talking about?
Lanfear was famous for
two things among the Forsaken.
Her casual cruelty
and her mastery
of Tel'aran'rhiod.
Tel'aran...?
The world of dreams.
She can hurt you
just as easily there as here.
And the moment you fall asleep,
she will have you.
You can keep us awake
with the One Power.
Right?
No.
[door opens]
[bell tolling]
My lady, you're-you're injured!
Where's my sister?
She's in the kitchen, but...
but, uh, your nephew's with her.
Nephew?
Oh, good, you're back.
And you've brought a friend.
Aunt Moiraine.
[chuckles]
I-I could hardly believe it
when Mother said you were here.
It's...
it's been 20 years.
I think you were as high as this
table the last time I saw you.
You... you...
well, you look
almost exactly the same.
If somewhat bedraggled.
I'm imagining you didn't
- come back
for the royal wedding tasting?
- [Barthanes] Come on, Mother.
She's got better things to do
than pretend she can taste
the difference between
raspberries and thimbleberries.
You must be my aunt's Warder.
I'm not a Warder.
This is...
...Rand.
A pleasure, Rand.
I'm, uh, Barthanes Damodred.
- And this is my...
- We've met.
We need horses, two.
Coursers, if you have them.
[Anvaere] I'll have them
brought to the house.
We have a whole stable
of the very best.
A gift from the queen.
[Barthanes] And you must
come to wedding.
It's just a few weeks away.
Can you believe that I will be
marrying Queen Galldrian?
Now that makes me your king.
So I shall expect
full subservience.
It's a happy match, I hope.
The name Damodred is held
in high esteem.
That is happiness enough.
Well...
I shall go and wash upstairs.
Perhaps a meal for Rand
in the meantime.
And then some fresh clothes
for him before we leave?
[Barthanes] Yes, of course.
We'll find him something
fitting from my wardrobe.
Thank you.
Is that... blood?
It truly has been good
to see you, nephew.
Or...
should I say, My Liege.
[chuckles]
[footsteps recede]
[door closes]
[door creaks open]
Oh. [laughs]
Heartening to see the dust
on that switch, sister.
Suffice to say,
my backside still recalls
Sereille Sedai's
heavy-handed punishments,
centuries after the fact.
Why, Verin Sedai.
I was unaware
you'd be visiting us.
No need to stand on my behalf.
I grow weary of
all the formality.
You're making me feel old.
[chuckles]
Uh, what can I do
for you, Sister?
I was hoping to have a word
with two of the girls
in your care, Egwene al'Vere
and Nynaeve al'Meara.
Do you know
where I might find them?
Uh, they are likely busy
doing their chores.
In fact, they aren't.
Nor are they in their class,
nor in their rooms.
And, um, also
the Daughter-Heir of Andor is
nowhere to be found.
Is it possible they may have
left Tower grounds?
- The Daughter-Heir?
- It's worth taking a look,
don't you think?
Oh.
Uh... [clears throat]
Oh, goodness, yes.
Here it is.
A visit to Elayne's home
in Caemlyn.
The three were signed out
just the other day.
That seems worth remembering.
It is.
I, um...
I don't know how it
slipped my mind, frankly.
It's quite unusual.
That it is.
But it appears the three
were accompanied by a force
of Queen Morgase's soldiers,
so I'm sure all's well,
and we will hear from Caemlyn
in a few days' time.
Yes, I'm sure.
Oh, yeah, I have
another question for you.
I was in the library asking
after a book, Meditations
on the Kindling Flame?
Oh, yes, I've been meaning
to return it.
It's in my room, actually.
Do you need it?
Just for a short passage
on the Amyrlin Tetsuan, uh...
if you could.
Mm.
[door creaking]
♪ ♪
Now this is where my eidetic
memory comes in handy.
On the 72nd page is the notation
about the three girls'
departure,
apparently to attend
Elayne's brother Gawyn's
name day ceremony.
But the interesting thing
is that there is
a slight tremor in the notation.
Show me.
See, this is
Sheriam's usual writing.
- Mm-hmm.
- But here...
it looks as if her hand
was moving more slowly.
[gasps] Or perhaps
it was someone trying
to mimic her handwriting?
No, Sheriam remembered
making the notation herself.
Mm.
Do you think
it might look like this...
...if a weave of Compulsion
was being used?
Compulsion?
That would break
the Three Oaths.
It would mean that someone in
the Tower has sworn to the Dark.
That...
...Black Ajah really exists.
We need to find the name
of every Aes Sedai
that left the Tower
for any reason
over the past few days.
♪ ♪
[rumbling]
[horseshoes clopping]
♪ ♪
We expected you hours ago.
The Ways are unpredictable.
I had expected our master
to meet me himself.
Our master has
more important things to do
than play fetch with his dog.
What you do to these women
is an abomination.
Perhaps the Seanchan
should learn proper respect
- for the One Power.
- [Suroth] On the contrary,
we respect
the One Power so much,
we don't believe that
anyone should wield it
by accident of birth.
Our sul'dam train for years
to prove themselves worthy.
They earn their right.
Unlike the Aes Sedai.
Our master's needs
will change with time, you know.
And all marath'damane
will be leashed
eventually.
Perhaps I will be the one
to place the collar
around your lovely throat.
Our master's needs will change.
I'll remind you of it...
on the day you kneel to me.
If you last that long.
[Suroth] Bring them to me.
[gasping]
Do something.
I can't.
Run!
[indistinct shouting]
[yelps]
[shouts in Old Tongue]
Wait. Where's Egwene?
[shouting]
[grunting]
[birds chirping]
You do not dance
the spears badly,
Perrin Aybara.
I thought your people
never left the Waste.
Wetlanders call it "the Waste."
It is the Three-Fold Land.
A shaping stone to make us,
a testing ground
to prove our worth,
and a punishment for the sin.
What sin?
Nobody remembers,
it was so long ago.
Why did you leave?
I'm searching
for the Car'a'carn.
Our... chief of chiefs.
So where are you going, then?
Where you go, wetlander.
But you just said that...
I have toh.
Toh?
Ji'e'toh is the Aiel way.
You saved my life.
My water is yours.
Don't know about that.
It is not a lover, wetlander.
Though, I...
would not be opposed.
[laughing]
[Perrin chuckles]
Ah.
Don't worry,
Perrin of Two Rivers.
I will not attack you
in a fit of lust.
[both chuckle]
So... where will we go now?
Falme.
♪ ♪
[indistinct chatter]
[camels grunting]
[horse neighs]
[indistinct chatter]
This city...
it's Falme on Toman Head.
We're thousands of miles west
of the White Tower, Nynaeve.
Falme.
That's where Liandrin said
Perrin and Loial
were being taken.
- Come on,
we've got to find out...
- Wait.
Don't draw any attention to us.
They're gonna be looking for us.
We need to be careful.
[indistinct chatter]
These soldiers,
they're not from Falme.
Or Toman Head.
They're foreigners.
- Occupiers.
- I don't care
where they're from.
All I care about is finding
Egwene and getting out of here.
[soldier shouts]
[soldier shouts indistinctly]
Stop. You're gonna
get us both killed.
First we need
to change our clothes.
Our clothes?
Not fancy enough for you?
Those soldiers at the Waygate
were looking for us.
They will still
be looking for us.
- Here. Follow me...
- I'm not taking orders
from you, Princess.
I don't even know you.
[grunting]
[Verin] Sister!
Ah, you've returned.
Looks like I'm not the only one.
[both chuckle]
Is your incredibly long
and dry History done already?
I, um, I thought
you were in Jurene
hunting a young man
suspected of channeling.
- Luckily it was nothing.
- Hmm.
But... I did...
bring back some white asparagus.
If you'd like some. It's a
delicacy from the village.
- You can only...
- Procure them there
- and only at this time of year.
- Yes.
[both chuckle]
What did you say had brought you
back to the Tower, Sister?
Can't have been white asparagus.
Though I know you love to eat.
[chuckles softly]
No, I'm, um...
I'm hoping to meet
a couple of our novices.
Girls with quite some power,
if I've heard correctly.
Egwene al'Vere
and Nynaeve al'Meara.
Yes.
Quite extraordinary.
Especially the Wisdom.
An Accepted already.
Sadly, they're not here.
That's strange.
Novices shouldn't
be allowed to...
Well, they've, uh...
they've gone to a name day
ceremony in Caemlyn.
I'd heard on the road back that
a royal envoy going to Caemlyn
was attacked south of here.
By whom?
Uh, a soldier at the inn.
He said it was...
bandits or Whitecloaks.
But if the girls
were with them...
Come, we must talk
to the Keeper immediately.
Those girls are worth
more than gold itself.
Hurry.
[scoffs softly]
[groans softly]
[inhales]
[sniffles, sighs]
[exhales]
[knocking]
[inhales deeply, exhales]
[door creaking]
- [door closes]
- The horses are being saddled
downstairs.
And if I asked you to tell me
how you and that boy
ended up in this state?
[water splashing softly]
Mm.
Turn.
I'm surprised
you're not downstairs
prying the answers you seek
from Rand.
Barthanes encouraged me
to leave it alone.
Oh, well,
he always had a kind heart.
Yes. Somehow my son
came out more like our father
than either you or I.
I know you won't tell me what's
really going on with the boy
or why you're really here.
But I know you, Moiraine.
Your whole life,
you've always known
what you wanted to do.
Yet now, I'm looking at you,
and I don't think
you have any idea
what you want to do next,
despite all this bluster.
Rand, he...
He needs protection.
And I don't know
whether I can provide it.
Not from what's chasing him.
And there's every chance
that you, Barthanes
and this entire city will be
caught in the crossfire
if I make the wrong choice.
You should have stayed away.
I know.
[inhales deeply, shudders]
When I was a little girl...
...I got an excellent piece
of advice once
from my very smart,
much older sister.
She told me that
if something is upsetting you
or making you afraid...
...you ask yourself
one simple question.
Is it true?
Can you know, beyond any doubt,
- that it's true?
- [sighs]
Can you know, beyond any doubt,
that Rand needs your protection?
[exhales sharply]
It was excellent advice,
wasn't it?
[exhales]
I've used it often
in the last 40 years.
Whatever danger you've unleashed
or encouraged...
...it means the world to
Barthanes that you've returned.
Even if you cannot stay.
Perhaps I can.
♪ ♪
[Ishamael speaking Old Tongue]
Are you playing in my dreams
again Lanfear?
[chuckling softly]
How'd you know?
Subtlety's never been
your strength.
[sighs]
[Lanfear] I just have
to pass the time here
while I'm waiting for someone
to get some shut-eye.
People blame us
for 'breaking the world'
but they didn't bother
to pick up the pieces.
Three thousand years later
- and they're still
bashing about
- [pouring wine]
with swords and queens.
To the past.
To the future.
After our Great Lord's victory.
I assume
Rand learned the truth
about your innkeeper act.
How did you tell him?
I didn't.
Moiraine did.
I'm surprised you let her live
in the first place.
A dead Aes Sedai is useless.
And one without power isn't?
Desperation opens the mind
to more...
[chuckles softly]
...interesting choices.
As it did for you.
Mm.
Aren't you worried
I'll betray you?
Will you?
Obviously.
[both chuckle]
[gulping]
[glass clinks]
Do you know why the Great Lord
woke me first?
Why he speaks only to me?
Because...
Moghedien's insane,
Graendal's a vain idiot
and the boys
couldn't execute a plan
even if they were
under Compulsion.
[chuckles softly]
Because,
alone of all the Chosen...
...I actually believe
in the Dark.
I believe the only way
to stop all this suffering...
...is to stop the Wheel itself.
Stop everything.
So why release me?
Because I know what you want.
What you've always wanted.
[Lanfear] You're getting better
in the dream world.
I've had nothing if not time.
How does the current Dragon
measure up to his predecessor?
[Lanfear] Rand is...
softer.
Takes no pride in his birthright
and rejects his own power.
And what about the girls?
Is your little Aes Sedai
pushing them along their way?
I've only just collected them.
But one craves power
and the other one fears it.
And the boys?
Well, Mat was born mine,
and Perrin will soon be
more wolf than man.
What do you think
Rand will do when he sees
his friends are all lost?
He will break.
[Da'covale] [muffled] My lord.
Time for you to go.
My lord.
I'm sorry, my lord.
The High Lord Turak wishes
an audience with you.
Mm.
[Turak] You are not
of the Blood.
[Ishamael] I am not.
[Turak] Or even of our land.
Where is it that you're from?
No Westlander has ever set foot
on our shores.
I left my home so long ago,
I barely remember it.
And yet you've moved quickly
in our society.
Appearing seemingly out
of nowhere in Suroth's court.
And it was you, was it not,
who first saw the omens
that led us to begin the Return
to our ancient homeland?
[Ishamael] My lord,
my eyes are too low
to see such things.
Only our empress,
in her Court of the Nine Moons,
can see and know the omens
for what they are.
With this...
...you've earned my notice.
You may ask one thing of me.
The High Lady Suroth
has a gift for you.
I beg only you receive it
in good faith.
[rattling]
[inhales sharply]
[shuddering]
Elayne?
[inhales deeply]
[loud banging]
[shuddering]
[breathing heavily]
Who are you?
Ryma,
of the Yellow Ajah.
And my Warder found you
just in time.
The High Lady Suroth
has put out your descriptions,
and everyone in this city
is looking for you.
Do you have any idea
what these Seanchan do
to women who can channel?
[jangling]
- [grunts]
- [jangling]
I have brought you a gift,
my lord.
[grunts, panting]
[grunts]
She was a novice
being trained
at the White Tower.
My sul'dam say
she has more power
than any damane
we've seen in a very,
very long time.
[Turak's Voice] Collar her.
She must be tamed.
[grunting]
[Egwene panting]
[groans]
[screaming]
[gasping]
[panting]
What is it?
Are you sure you don't want
to get some sleep?
Time to go?
No, actually.
We're staying.
You said I can't sleep
or she'll find me.
Yes.
She will.
You want her to.
She's been with you, what,
two, three months now?
If she wanted to hurt you,
she's had ample opportunity.
But she hasn't.
What does she want?
I don't know.
If you'd asked me
a few days ago,
I would've said she wanted me.
To be with me.
Stories from before the Breaking
are vague,
because so much has been lost.
But every single one
that mentions Lanfear agrees
that she loved
the Dragon Reborn.
And that he loved her,
before he met his wife.
But she was a Darkfriend.
Only after he broke her heart.
She swore her oaths to the Dark
to try to get him back.
And, what, you want
to make her think she has?
You want me to pretend
to be in love with a Forsaken?
Lanfear is working
with Ishamael.
This could be our only chance
to find out what he wants.
- She'll see right through it.
- Maybe.
Maybe. She might.
I don't know.
Whatever she is, I don't think
everything between us was a lie.
It's your choice, Rand.
I mean that this time.
I'll stay here.
If it seems
as if she's hurting you...
...I'll wake you.
And if you fall asleep?
You're exhausted.
I don't have that option.
[exhales]
♪ ♪
[wind blowing]
[grunts]
[grunts, panting]
Finally.
♪ ♪